So let's work on our ingredients list,
the base form is working but of course we got another control which we haven't added yet,
this is this array of ingredients.
So when we initialize the form, we actually will have one other default value for the recipe ingredients,
this will be a new formArray and you should import formArray from @angular/forms. This formArray
is initialized with a default value of an empty array because we don't have any ingredients by default.
Now with this if that is our default, what do we overwrite
it to here in edit mode?
Well there, we will simply need to check if we have any ingredients to begin with
because theoretically, you could create a recipe without ingredients.
So here what I want to do is I want to check if my recipe which I loaded, if it does have ingredients,
so if that is defined, I know I can safely use them.
So in this case, I want to use all the ingredients so I can simply loop through them with a for/of loop,
so for a single ingredient of my
ingredients, I can go through all of them and I can push them onto my recipe ingredients formArray which
has a push method. Here
I don't push the ingredient,
I push a new FormGroup instead because I do have two controls which will control a single ingredient,
the name and the amount.
So these will be grouped in a FormGroup and here, I will have a name which is now a new FormControl
with a default value of ingredient name and I will have an amount, control,
also a new FormControl which has the default value, ingredient amount, not name, amount.
So that is a FormGroup
I will push onto this array because again we have two controls here,
validation will follow later
and with that, we get a default value for recipe ingredients
if we have a recipe and if this recipe then has ingredients. With that, we can assign the ingredients control
down there and it simply is our recipe ingredients which already is this new formArray here.
So that's looking all right,
let's see if it works and for that of course, we need to synchronize our array with our HTML
code.
So in the recipe edit component, if we scroll down to that section where we want to use the array, I'll first
work on the div which wraps the whole section we're going to use, here
I need to add the formArray name directive.
This will then be bound to ingredients because ingredients keep in mind,, is the name of our formArray
here,
so that assigns that in this area, we're going to handle this array of controls.
Now each control of course is now going to be our row here,
so on this row, I can place the formGroupName directive referring to the individual formGroupName
because remember, in our array, we will have form groups as each pair of name and amount control creates
a FormGroup.
Now what's the name of the form group
though, we didn't assign it because it's part of the array.
Well we learned how to get this name, we need to add ngFor to this div and then we can loop
through all the ingredients, through all the controls
I should say in our array.
So I can loop through the ingredient control of my recipe form and there, get the ingredients control,
get is a method which gives us access to that and here, all the controls of this control.
So this gives us access to all the controls and the individual control is now saved in the ingredient
control property or the variable we can use in the template and I can also extract the index of the current iteration
which will be the name for my FormGroup,
so with property binding, I can now bind i here. This should give me the form group,
now we also need to populate these inputs and there it's very easy because now we're inside the form
group and there we have names, we have name and amount,
so here we can again use formControlName, set this equal to name for the first control and formControlName
equal to amount for the second one.
Let's see if that works as expected.
Well it already looks pretty good to me,
here we got buns and meat
and if we added the schnitzel, we got meat and french fries.
So that gets populated correctly,
this is working as intended. With that we got our array added,
now of course we also need to add a way for us to dynamically add new items to that.